packages/docs/src/content/docs/guides/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting started
description: How to get your alloy project set up.
---
import { Code, Steps, TabItem, Tabs } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Quick Start

Initialize a new project with npm init:

<Code code="mkdir my-project
cd my-project
npm init @alloy-js
pnpm install
pnpm build
" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />

The following sections show what you need to add alloy to an existing project,
or may be useful if you'd like to customize your setup.

## Initialize a new npm package

<Tabs syncKey="package-manager">
  <TabItem label="npm">
    <Code code="npm init" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="pnpm">
    <Code code="pnpm init" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Ensure your package.json file has `"type": "module"`.

## Install TypeScript

<Tabs syncKey="package-manager">
  <TabItem label="npm">
    <Code code="npm install -d typescript" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="pnpm">
    <Code code="pnpm install -D typescript" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Install alloy

You will need `@alloy-js/core` as well as the packages for any languages you will want to generate.

<Tabs syncKey="package-manager">
  <TabItem label="npm">
    <Code code="npm install @alloy-js/core @alloy-js/cli @alloy-js/typescript" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="pnpm">
    <Code code="pnpm install @alloy-js/core @alloy-js/cli @alloy-js/typescript" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Install test dependencies

While you can use any test framework, [vitest](https://vitest.dev/) is
recommended. The following assumes you are using vitest.

<Tabs syncKey="package-manager">
  <TabItem label="npm">
    <Code code="npm install -d vitest @alloy-js/rollup-plugin" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="pnpm">
    <Code code="pnpm install -D vitest @alloy-js/rollup-plugin" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Next, create your `vitest.config.js`:

<Code code={`
  import { defineConfig } from "vitest/config";
  import alloyPlugin from "@alloy-js/rollup-plugin";

  export default defineConfig({
    test: {
      include: ["test/**/*.test.ts", "test/**/*.test.tsx"],
      exclude: ["test/**/*.d.ts"]
    },
    esbuild: {
      jsx: "preserve",
      sourcemap: "both"
    },
    plugins: [
      alloyPlugin(),
    ],
  });
`} lang="js" title="vitest.config.js" frame="code"/>

The esbuild jsx preserve option is important, don't forget it. Otherwise,
esbuild will munge whitespace within JSX before alloy has a chance to process
it.

## Building and testing

You can build your project with the following command:

```sh
npx alloy build
```

And test with:


```sh
vitest run
```

Commit message:

Add better stack traces (#350)
Compile in source location information for components, and log that
information in stack traces (which are now logged by default when an
error occurs during render).

packages/docs/src/content/docs/guides/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting started
description: How to get your alloy project set up.
---
import { Code, Steps, TabItem, Tabs } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Quick Start

Initialize a new project with npm init:

<Code code="mkdir my-project
cd my-project
npm init @alloy-js
pnpm install
pnpm build
" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />

The following sections show what you need to add alloy to an existing project,
or may be useful if you'd like to customize your setup.

## Initialize a new npm package

<Tabs syncKey="package-manager">
  <TabItem label="npm">
    <Code code="npm init" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="pnpm">
    <Code code="pnpm init" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Ensure your package.json file has `"type": "module"`.

## Install TypeScript

<Tabs syncKey="package-manager">
  <TabItem label="npm">
    <Code code="npm install -d typescript" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="pnpm">
    <Code code="pnpm install -D typescript" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Install alloy

You will need `@alloy-js/core` as well as the packages for any languages you will want to generate.

<Tabs syncKey="package-manager">
  <TabItem label="npm">
    <Code code="npm install @alloy-js/core @alloy-js/cli @alloy-js/typescript" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="pnpm">
    <Code code="pnpm install @alloy-js/core @alloy-js/cli @alloy-js/typescript" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Install test dependencies

While you can use any test framework, [vitest](https://vitest.dev/) is
recommended. The following assumes you are using vitest.

<Tabs syncKey="package-manager">
  <TabItem label="npm">
    <Code code="npm install -d vitest @alloy-js/rollup-plugin" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="pnpm">
    <Code code="pnpm install -D vitest @alloy-js/rollup-plugin" frame="terminal" lang="sh" />
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Next, create your `vitest.config.js`:

<Code code={`
  import { defineConfig } from "vitest/config";
  import alloyPlugin from "@alloy-js/rollup-plugin";

  export default defineConfig({
    test: {
      include: ["test/**/*.test.ts", "test/**/*.test.tsx"],
      exclude: ["test/**/*.d.ts"]
    },
    esbuild: {
      jsx: "preserve",
      sourcemap: "both"
    },
    plugins: [
      alloyPlugin(),
    ],
  });
`} lang="js" title="vitest.config.js" frame="code"/>

The esbuild jsx preserve option is important, don't forget it. Otherwise,
esbuild will munge whitespace within JSX before alloy has a chance to process
it.

## Building and testing

You can build your project with the following command:

```sh
npx alloy build
```

> 💡 The build defaults to production (no JSX source info). Use `--dev` to include file/line/column info, or `--no-source-info` to force-disable it. `BABEL_ENV`/`NODE_ENV` can also control this (dev if not "production").

And test with:


```sh
vitest run
```
